“God hath given you one face And you make yourself another” Hamlet, William
Shakespeare   Legend has it that a rising electric guitar player was the cause
of some concern before his much-anticipated performance during a festival in a
bucolic Californian town. A rock concert backstage is not exactly the place to
find oneself horrified by unruly sights, but this dressing room was particularly
chaotic. Marijuana was being smoked, alcohol was being drank, nudity was being
enjoyed, acid was being dropped, and a general sense of complete and utter
mayhem was more than apparent when the stage manager walked in to announce that
the band was due on stage in two minutes. Jimi Hendrix performs onstage at the
Monterey Pop Festival with his Fender Stratocaster electric guitar on June 18,
1967 in Monterey, California. (Photo by Michael Ochs Archives/Getty Images)
Standing up from the floor where he was laying among a few naked female
companions, the guitar player in question shook off the dirt and the effects of
all the substances he had indulged on during the evening and walked up to his
guitar case. In it, a brand new Fender Stratocaster with sunburst paint laid
perfectly polished and in tune, with its respective cable coiled up on top of
it. The musician in question strapped it to his body, and before he walked out
of the room, he did not forget to grab a canister of cigarette lighter fuel and
a book of matches that he had neatly stashed next to his instrument. To this
day, no one knows exactly the degree of madness that Jimi Hendrix was engulfed
in before walking onto the stage at the Monterrey Pop Festival in 1967. His
method, however, was rock-solid. In one of the most historic and emblematic rock
and roll performances of all time, Hendrix extracted from his Strat every sound
imaginable, painting a picture of his time that has hardly been equaled. From
the growls and moans of a dissatisfied generation looking for a way out of their
parent’s slumber to the acid-induced musings that he got from his wah-wah pedal
to the explosion of the bombs in Vietnam that could be heard every time he dug
deep into that whammy bar aided by the red-hot valves of his Marshall amp,
Hendrix became the ultimate guitar hero in thirty memorable minutes. And yes, at
the end of his performance he laid his guitar on the floor and set it ablaze
after dousing it with lighter fluid, in a picture of madness that could not have
been possible without a method behind it. Hendrix was, indeed, a man with a plan
on that night. We need to start considering that so was Ryan Garcia on the night
he defeated Devin Haney. Ryan Garcia (right) dares Devin Haney (left) to hit him
during their April 20 non-title bout – Photo by Chris Esqueda/Golden Boy
Promotions There is hardly anything as potentially trailblazing and
extraordinary in what Garcia did during the cringe-inducing build-up of this
fight, at least not in the mold of what Hendrix did. Sure, he’s the first
fighter ever to drink from a beer bottle during his trip to the scales. Big
deal. He wore a one-million-dollar crown on his head before and after the fight.
So what? He allegedly married a scantily clad influencer one week before the
fight and partied like it was 1999 during the entire week. Whatever. And yes, he
tweeted with abandon, anything from biblical quotes to death threats to
conspiracy theories. Yeah, right, tell me the difference between him and the
current leading presidential candidate. In a world where the one-minute news
cycle is the norm and not the exception, Garcia overwhelmed us with an unending
barrage of made-for-social-network shenanigans that made everyone forget the
effect that his phenomenal GPS-guided left hook had on almost all of his
opponents so far in his short career. Most importantly, he made Haney forget
that fact almost completely. At 25, and already a veteran of the fight game by
virtue of a long amateur career and an insane amount of exposure for a non-
champion, perhaps Garcia already knows all too well the nuances of psychological
warfare to a point that we cannot imagine. Smart money says that he is clueless
and reckless and that his entire set of pre-fight antics was one giant mess
designed more to serve as an excuse after a defeat than being an elaborate psi-
op by an evil mastermind. Smart money also placed Haney as quite the prohibitive
favorite. Dumb money, as it turns out, won the day. So enthralling was Garcia’s
act of deception that most observers failed to see in his handshake agreement to
pay 500K for every extra pound anything other than just one more layer of
dumbassery. It was, as we know now, a brilliant aikido move by Ryan. He wasn’t
just agreeing to pay that sum, he was forcing Haney to accept that payment once
the inevitable happened.  When Garcia stepped on the scales the next day, the
act was complete. And those who believe Garcia bought himself a chance to carry
more power into the fight by paying a $1.5 million-dollar fine to Haney for
being overweight are just as wrong. With that money (compensated by the
sanctioning fees that neither fighter would have to pay since the fight was not
a WBC title bout anymore), Garcia paid for the near-certain chance to shake the
world by almost stopping an unbeaten pound-for-pound talent, dispose of a
lifelong nemesis in the final chapter of a seven-fight rivalry (six of them in
the amateurs), and earn himself a career-best performance that he will now be
able to cash in to the tune of what could very well be hundreds of millions of
dollars, win or lose. If anything, Garcia knew the fact that his performance on
Saturday would make the difference between him earning street respect or
becoming a joke. He threw his entire psychological and physical weight on it and
placed a beer bottle on top for good measure. The result will be dissected and
analyzed for a long time. “Though he be mad, there is method in’t,” said
Polonius in his analysis of Hamlet’s behavior, as written in the ultimate
Shakespearian drama. In this fight, Garcia’s madness was all the more visible
when contrasted with Haney’s methodic approach to his craft. A pro by his 19th
birthday, a promoter himself since his early 20s, an unbeaten champion with a
string of career-defining victories coming into this fight, Haney was arguably
ill-prepared to face Garcia’s whirlwind of irrationality. In the end, it was his
lack of appetite for madness, apparently, what triggered his defeat. It will now
be interesting to see how Garcia’s future foes react to his antics. A no-
nonsense streetwise fighter like Gervonta Davis appeared impervious to his
rants. But as solid as Garcia’s matchmaking has been in the purely athletic
department, it will also be interesting to see whether the same will apply in
the psychological profiling of his prospective rivals. Against Garcia, having a
weak chin could be just as dangerous as having a thin skin. The wiser
matchmakers should take note of that – and they probably will. “Madness in great
ones must not unwatched go,” pleaded King Claudius to Polonius in response to
his concerns over Prince Hamlet’s mental state. It is now up to Oscar de la
Hoya, Garcia’s chief handler and a king in his own right in his heyday as a
fighter, to steer his young prince in the right direction and keep his madness
in check as he rises to what could potentially be an uncharted level of
superstardom. As a virtual doppelganger of Garcia in his physical looks, De la
Hoya has his babysitting job cut out for him, but he is aided by his experience
with his own personal bouts of madness and exposure to demons that he described
in such harrowing detail in a recent documentary. Whether Ryan will also become
Oscar’s doppelganger in the ring is something that appears unlikely at the
moment, given how far behind Garcia is in terms of accomplishments at his age.
But their eventual symbiosis could easily lead them to be the most profitable
and successful fighter-promoter duos of all time. The only certainty going
forward, it seems, is that a play worthy of The Bard awaits us. For boxing’s
sake, let’s just hope the young prince doesn’t end his days in agonizing pain
after a self-inflicted poisoning during a misguided duel. After all, there’s
only so much tragedy that boxing can endure and still survive.   Diego M.
Morilla has written for The Ring since 2013. He has also written for HBO.com,
ESPN.com and many other magazines, websites, newspapers and outlets since 1993.
He is a full member of the Boxing Writers Association of America and an elector
for the International Boxing Hall of Fame. He has won two first-place awards in
the BWAA’s annual writing contest, and he is the moderator of The Ring’s Women’s
Ratings Panel. He served as copy editor for the second era of The Ring en
Español (2018-2020) and is currently a writer and editor for RingTV.com. Follow
@MorillaBoxing Thanks for signing up! Check your inbox or spam folder to confirm
your subscription.