It’s been quite the journey for fringe light heavyweight contender Malik Zinad.
The Libya-born fighter left his home in 2013 due to political unrest, moving to
Malta, and after a handful of amateur fights he embarked on a professional
career that has so far seen the now 30-year-old win all 21 of his pro bouts all
across Europe and America. Zinad will dust off his passport once again and
travel to Australia where he’ll face fellow unbeaten prospect Jerome Pampellone
at the Hordern Pavilion, in Sydney, on Wednesday. “I started fighting in Malta
and then turned pro when I met [former light heavyweight champion] Donny
Lalonde, and I’ve gone up and up,” Zinad (21-0, 16 knockouts) told The Ring.
“I’m the first professional boxer in my country. I don’t see anybody in front of
me doing this. “I needed to travel out of my country to Europe, America, U.K. to
train and be where I am now. It’s not easy, I never had an easy way, I always
work hard, always struggling. Where I am now is from hard work. “My last fight
when I won the WBA Intercontinental belt I didn’t get any fights. From March
2023, nobody offered me a big fight.” “The fight is going to hard, it’s going to
be a tough fight,” he admitted. “I need this kind of tough fight. The best man
will win. I’ll be ready and we’re both coming to win.” He had long courted
something bigger and has regularly taken to the road fighting and winning in 10
different countries so far. “I don’t want to go down and fight small fights, I
want big fights, there’s no good promoter who wanted to sign me,” he said. “In
boxing it’s normal, I’m used to it, so I say, ‘OK, I keep myself training and
give myself a good position and then the fight will come.’ And look, now the
fight has come.” Zinad, who has been training in Vero Beach under the watchful
eye of Buddy McGirt, arrived in Australia last week to acclimate, is determined
to make good on his opportunity to fight for an IBF 175-pound title eliminator.
“Wait for my big knockout coming on April 24,” he said. “Watch me and you will
enjoy the fight.” McGirt is happy with the form his fighter has shown in camp
but admits to stepping into the dark against Pampellone. “[Zinad] is looking
good in sparring, getting better each day,” said the former two-weight world
champion turned trainer. “I don’t know much about his opponent but we will be
ready.” Pampellone (18-0, 11 KOs) was born in England but moved to New Zealand
when he was 10. He got into amateur boxing and won three New Zealand national
titles and fought at the 2019 World Championships but lost at the quarter-final
stage. He turned professional in December 2020. Since then, the 27-year-old has
remained unbeaten largely fighting in his adopted homeland with the odd
appearance in Australia. He holds win over Faris Chevalier (UD 10), Mose
Auimatagi Jr. (TKO 1) and, most recently, former world title challenger Rogelio
Medina (TKO 1). Questions and/or comments can be sent to Anson at
[email protected]. Follow @AnsonWainwright Thanks for signing up! Check your
inbox or spam folder to confirm your subscription.