Another fight, another victory for Jose Salas. Now fighting at 118 pounds, Salas
won a hard-fought unanimous decision over Luis Guzman Friday night at the
Auditorio Municipal in Salas’ hometown of Tijuana, Mexico. Scores were 100-90,
100-90, and 98-92 for Salas, who improved to 15-0, 10 knockouts. Salas thought
he scored a knockdown in the opening round, sending Guzman against the ropes,
which broke his fall. Replays showed a punch did land, but no knockdown was
called. Throughout most of the fight, Salas displayed speed and pedigree,
outboxing Guzman, who was able to land his share of punches. The southpaw Salas
began to consistently land with the left hand to the head of Guzman in round
four. Salas continued to outbox Guzman during the middle rounds, connecting as
both exchanged punches and combinations in the pocket. Guzman had his best
moments during the seventh round, connecting to the head of Salas, who took the
punches well. Salas shifted momentum his way in round eight, now landing more
uppercuts to the head of Guzman. Both fighters had their moments during the
final two rounds, exchanging combinations that brought cheers from the crowd.
Guzman was the aggressor, but Salas did land the more-telling punches. The
22-year-old previously fought on October 20, also at the Auditorio Municipal,
Salas scoring a one-sided victory over gatekeeper Florentino Perez Hernandez. On
July 29, which took place on the undercard of the Terence Crawford-Errol Spence
undisputed welterweight championship fight, Salas stopped former world title
challenger Aston Palicte in the fourth round. All three fights Salas fought in
2023 were as a junior featherweight. Guzman (now 11-4, 6 KOs) previously fought
on March 2 in his hometown of Villahermosa, Mexico, defeating Oscar Gomez Lopez
by unanimous decision. The win over Gomez took place over five months after
losing a one-sided decision to top junior featherweight prospect Tenshin
Nasukawa. In the co-feature, welterweight Abel Ramos broke down Juan Ramon
Guzman, stopping him in round five. Ramos, who resides in Casa Grande, Arizona,
improved to 28-6-2, 22 KOs. Guzman was game, but it was all Ramos as he outboxed
Guzman throughout most of the fight. Ramos dropped Guzman twice during the fifth
round, prompting a stoppage by the referee to save Guzman from receiving further
punishment. The 32-year-old Ramos, who is the uncle of junior middleweight
contender Jesus Ramos, had not since March 25 of last year, losing by unanimous
decision to Cody Crowley. Prior to the loss to Crowley, in February 2022, Ramos
lost by unanimous decision to Luke Santamaria. In recent fights, Ramos was
victorious over Francisco Santana and Omar Figueroa, Jr. In February 2020, Ramos
knocked out Bryant Perrella at 2:59 of the final round. Ramos was down on all
three judges’ scorecards (88-83, 88-83, and 87-84) at the time of the stoppage.
Guzman falls to 17-3-1, 13 KOs. He had won his previous five fights, all by
knockout and all in his hometown of nearby Rosarito. In an all-action female
featherweight fight, Alejandra Guzman of Ciudad Obregon, Mexico defeated Mexico
City’s Karina Travieso (5-4-1) by unanimous decision. Scores were 77-75, 77-75,
and 78-74 for Guzman, who improved to 14-3-2, 7 KOs. Junior welterweight
prospect Alejandro Aguilera of Tijuana dropped Mexicali’s Alexander Rico (7-4-1,
2 KOs) three times en route to a one-sided decision victory. Scores were 59-53,
59-53, and 60-52 for Aguilera, who improved to 9-0-1, 2 KOs. In the opening bout
of the BXSTRS/Alto Boxing card, lightweight Kevin Piedrahita stopped Johan
Rodriguez (4-2) of Torreon, Mexico in the third round. Piedrahita, who is
originally from Pereira, Colombia and now resides in Celaya, Mexico, improved to
9-1, 8 KOs. Francisco A. Salazar has written for The Ring since October 2013 and
has covered boxing in Southern California and abroad since 2000. Francisco also
covers boxing for the Ventura County (California) Star newspaper. He can be
reached at [email protected] Follow @FSalazarBoxing Thanks for signing up! Check
your inbox or spam folder to confirm your subscription.