All through her ten years as a professional prizefighter, the transformation of
Yokasta Valle from a young aspiring fighter to a world-class contender and her
current form as top pound-for-pound entrant has been enthralling to watch. Her
coach believes there will be even more to watch this Friday night. “This is not
the same Yokasta Valle that I started training in the beginning,” said trainer
Gloria Alvarado. “She’s a beast, smart in the ring, stronger and hungrier than
ever. I can’t wait for everyone to see her in the ring on March 29. You’ll see
all the hard work we put into this camp.” Valle’s progress during that camp and
the days before was captured in a documentary called “Road to undisputed”
already available in YouTube, ahead of Valle’s defense of her IBF and WBO
strawweight belts against Seniesa Estrada that will take place on March 29 at
the Desert Diamont Arena in Glendale Arizona. Valle (30-2, 9 KOs), rated at No.
at 105 pounds and No. 9 pound-for-pound, has been working on getting Estrada in
the ring for a few years now. Valle went as far as signing a promotional
agreement with Golden Boy Promotions (Estrada’s promoter at the time) in order
to facilitate the clash, but Estrada left for Top Rank a short time later, and
that only added to the bad blood between them. Yokasta Valle – Photo by Ray
Navarrette “This fight has been different in the sense that she has provoked me,
first through social media and then personally,” said Valle, referring to her
only brief moment in the ring with Estrada so far, when the pair engaged in an
entertaining war of words right after Estrada’s win over Leonela Yudica in July
of last year. “But the fight is coming on the 29th, and more than motivated I
would say am focused on the fight. I have nothing personal against her. As a
professional in the ring I am going to give my best.” The question of who’s the
best strawweight fighter in the world was somehow answered when Estrada (25-0, 9
knockouts), currently the  undefeated WBA and WBC world titlist as well as being
rated at No. 5 pound-for-pound by The Ring, became the magazine’s inaugural
105-pound champ with her win over Tina Rupprech one year ago. And even so, Valle
begs to differ. “BoxRec has me at No. 1 for a reason, not because they want to
but because of facts based on my fights,” said Valle, referring to the
computerized ratings published by boxing’s record-keeping website. “Even though
Seniesa says I’m not at her level, she knows we are both on the same level.
Champion vs. champion. She just talks, I will do my talking in the ring.” BoxRec
may have its opinion, but for The Ring it’s currently Estrada’s fight to lose,
at least according to the magazine’s trailblazing ratings, which place Estrada
as the champ. Costa Rica’s Yokasta Valle (R) fights against Mexico’s Anabel “La
Avispa” Ortiz during their boxing match in Cartago, Costa Rica, on November 4,
2023 – Photo by Ezequel Becerra/AFP via Getty Images Valle says that this only
adds to her hunger to overcome this challenge. “That Ring belt, ever since I saw
Rocky, I thought ‘wow, does that belt really exist?’ And when I realized it did
exist I said ‘I am going to get it someday,’”, said Valle referring to the
legendary red, white and blue belt currently held by Estrada. “And I know that I
will grab it on the 29th. Seniesa got it first but that gives me even more
motivation.” Estrada’s unbeaten status only adds to the equation. “The fact
Seniesa is undefeated only excites me and motivates me more,” adds Valle. “I
love these type of challenges and she is not the first undefeated fighter I have
fought. I’ve done it before, and I’ve taken their 0. I’m motivated to give her
the first loss of her career. I know she’s afraid of losing, I’ve already been
through that and it only makes me stronger.” Her promoter Mario Vega, also the
director of her documentary, couldn’t agree more. “I’ve been with Yoka for 32
fights and I have never seen her at the physical level she is now,” said Vega.
“All the sacrifices, the difficulties she’s gone through, the dreams she’s had
since she was a little girl, all have been worth it. She’s coming in the best
shape physically and mentally of her entire career. I have no doubt we are going
to win.” Part of the confidence in Valle’s training has to do with her presence
in the renowned Wild Card Boxing Club owned by Hall of Fame trainer, Freddie
Roach, where boxers such as Devin Haney and Jaime Munguía currently train. Aside
from Alvarado and Vega, Valle has been able to have her mother Azucena Alvarez
and her sister Naomi Valle as a sparring partner. “This obviously adds
motivation because these are the type of fights I’ve looked for, the tough
fights,” said Valle. “I am more than ready. I am going to give it all in the
ring, I tell her ‘get ready’”. When reminded of Estrada’s super hero costume
that includes a cape and an S emblazoned on her chest to symbolize her
“SuperBad” moniker, Valle was as quick as usual with her clever retort. “I am
going to be her kryptonite,” said the Nicaragua-born, lifelong Costa Rica
resident. “My preparation has given me this confidence I have. March 29th you
will see the best version of me.” Diego M. Morilla has written for The Ring
since 2013. He has also written for HBO.com, ESPN.com and many other magazines,
websites, newspapers and outlets since 1993. He is a full member of the Boxing
Writers Association of America and an elector for the International Boxing Hall
of Fame. He has won two first-place awards in the BWAA’s annual writing contest,
and he is the moderator of The Ring’s Women’s Ratings Panel. He served as copy
editor for the second era of The Ring en Español (2018-2020) and is currently a
writer and editor for RingTV.com. Follow @MorillaBoxing                   Thanks
for signing up! Check your inbox or spam folder to confirm your subscription.