Devin Haney will retain his WBC 140-pound title after he suffered his first
defeat. The outcome of Friday’s weigh-in left Haney’s reign protected versus
Ryan Garcia, who was 3.2 pounds above the 140-pound limit. A deal was reached to
allow the fight to move forward, though without the WBC title at stake. Garcia
(24-1, 20 knockouts) scored three knockdowns en route to a majority decision
victory Saturday evening at Barclays Center in Brooklyn, New York. Haney, No. 1
at 140, was down in rounds seven, ten and eleven en route to his first career
blemish. The saving grace for Haney (31-1, 15 KOs)—as it relates to his title
reign—was the decision to still make weight. Doing so maintained his current WBC
beltholder status. “Congratulations to Ryan GarcÌa defying all obstacles and
winning a huge fight,” WBC president Mauricio Sulaiman posted on X after the
fight. “Congratulations to Devin Haney for showing his huge heart and class.
Just as in [Diego] Corrales vs [Jose Luis] Castillo 2 , with the challenger not
making weight, Haney remains WBC champion.” Congratulations to Ryan GarcÌa
defying all obstacles and winning a huge fight. Congratulations to Devin Haney
for showing his huge heart and class. Just as in Corrales vs Castillo 2 , with
the challenger not making weight, Haney remains WBC champion. — Mauricio
Sulaiman (@wbcmoro) April 21, 2024  Specifically, the declaration is consistent
with the WBC Synthesized Rules For Championship Bouts. Per WC-3 (b) covering
weigh-ins: “If the challenger exceeds the official weight limit in his last
weigh-in attempt, the champion shall retain their title and the boxers have the
option of conducting the bout as a non-title bout.” The ruling differs from
other sanctioning bodies such as the WBO, whose by-laws carry stricter terms for
non-title bouts. Haney stripped down to come in right at the 140-pound limit, as
supervised by the New York State Athletic Commission. Garcia never bothered to
make the contracted weight, at least in the sense of a final fight week weight-
cut. He was too far over the limit for the NYSAC to bother with an allotment
period to shed the extra weight. During the post-fight press conference, Garcia
revealed he will campaign at welterweight moving forward. He weighed 143 pounds
ahead of a December 2 knockout win over Oscar Duarte in Houston, Texas. Their
bout was marketed as a WBA Gold 140-pound title fight; the contracted weight was
adjusted before the weigh-in. While Garcia picked up the biggest win of his
career—and in a major upset—he remains without a major title. Haney still holds
the WBC title he won when he dethroned Regis Prograis last December 9 in San
Francisco, California. He is expected to next defend versus mandatory challenger
Sandor Martin (42-3, 15 KOs), a 30-year-old southpaw from Spain. Jake Donovan is
a senior writer for The Ring and vice president of the Boxing Writers
Association of America. Follow @JakeNDaBox READ THE MARCH ISSUE OF THE RING FOR
FREE VIA THE NEW APP NOW. SUBSCRIBE NOW TO ACCESS MORE THAN 10 YEARS OF BACK
ISSUES.   READ THE MARCH ISSUE OF THE RING FOR FREE VIA THE NEW APP NOW.
SUBSCRIBE NOW TO ACCESS MORE THAN 10 YEARS OF BACK ISSUES.  Thanks for signing
up! Check your inbox or spam folder to confirm your subscription.