NEW YORK, NY — If there were any nerves, Charles Conwell hid them well. He
walked into his dressing room in the bowels of Barclays Center on Saturday
afternoon with an easy demeanor, as calm as he could be. If he were any more
relaxed, he would have been asleep. It had been 16 months, going back to
November 26, 2022, since Conwell, the former U.S. Olympian, was in the ring
throwing fists for money. On Saturday night, on the Devin Haney-Ryan Garcia
undercard at Barclay Center in Brooklyn, Conwell (19-0, 14 knockouts) snapped
his inactive spell with a sixth-round stoppage over tough veteran Nathaniel
Gallimore (22-8-1, 17 KOs). Charles Conwell made good use of the uppercut
against Nathaniel Gallimore (Photo by Cris Esqueda/Golden Boy). It took some
time for Conwell to find a rhythm, but when it arrived, it came in torrents. “I
feel good,” Conwell said. “It was the coming back party. I thought he was a
tough-game fighter. He came with a lot of experience, but I did what no other
fighter has done. I stopped him in the sixth round. I don’t think any other
fighter has beat him as bad as I did. “He was a tough fighter and I appreciate
him for taking the fight. We’re looking to get back in the ring asap, sometime
in July or August. I’m back in the gym getting better. The ring rust is off.
We’re ready for what’s next.” In the third Conwell really opened up, slamming
Gallimore to the body, and the head. But Gallimore came back to have a good
fourth, landing a few uppercuts on Conwell. In the fifth, Conwell, his left eye
swollen, crowded Gallimore and had him against the ropes with 1:10 left in the
round. Gallimore’s nose was bleeding, and he was on the retreat, with referee
Arthur Mercante Jr. looking on closely. Conwell opened the sixth leveling a
heavy dose of uppercuts through Gallimore’s guard, when Mercante saw enough and
ended it :52 of the sixth. David Jimenez takes the WBA Interim Junior Bantam
Title  David Jimenez plows John “Scrappy” Ramirez (Photo by Cris Esqueda-Golden
Boy) It was John “Scrappy” Ramirez who was carrying the flashy torch, with hair
larger than himself, carrying the hype train, but it was David Jimenez who wound
up winning on substance, taking the interim WBA interim junior bantamweight
title by unanimous decision, winning 117-111 on two scorecards and 116-112 on
the other. “I am very happy to become a champion again. I want to thank Golden
Boy for the opportunity,” said Jimenez, who outlanded Ramriez 191-142 on total
punches. “I am ready to plan for what’s next. I felt great in the ring, and I
felt like I was controlling the fight from the second round. Scrappy has a good
punch and is a good boxer. Like all fighters, I want to become undisputed.”
Through six rounds, it was a fairly even fight. Ramirez began taking a page from
what Jimenez had been doing early on, digging to the body. Neither fighter was
willing to give way. Jimenez was punching with more volume, tapping Ramirez
inside. He was outworking Ramirez, working the body and the head. In the ninth,
the two literally butted foreheads, leaning on each other, as they slammed
inside. Referee Benji Esteves was getting a work out of his own, constantly
separating the fighters. As the 10th opened, Jimenez went into attack mode
again, ripping shots into Ramirez’s sides. Jimenez kept coming forward and
Ramirez kept taking shots. Scrappy’s face was cut up, Jimenez looked clean going
into the championship rounds. Between the 10th and 11th, Ramirez’s corner
implored him to close strong, though there seemed no concern whether or not he
was losing. With 1:39 left in the last round, Jimenez popped Ramirez with an
uppercut, and a cut opened on Ramirez’s right eyebrow, possibly by a headbutt,
though the opening left blotches of blood on Jimenez’s cheek. While Ramirez’s
corner pushed for the big close, it was Jimenez who closed strong. Bektemir
Melikuziev hands Pierre Dibombe his first loss Bektemir Melikuziev and Pierre
Dibombe engaged in a bloody war (Photo by Cris Esqueda-Golden Boy). Southpaw
super middleweight Bektemir Melikuziev (14-1, 10 KOs) notched possibly his
biggest victory to date, handing Pierre Dibombe (22-1-1,12 KOs) his first loss
on a unanimous eight-round technical decision victory by scores of 79-73 (2) and
78-74 in a scheduled 10-rounder. In the first round, Dibombe suffered a cut on
the right eyebrow. It was the start of things to come. The cut opened like a
mini spigot of blood, which dribbled down his face as he returned to his corner
after the first. The cut, it was later determined, the cut was caused by an
accidental headbutt. Melikuziev kept attacking, and punishing Dibombe, pushing
him back with a constant, strong jab. Even though it seemed Melikuziev was
dominating, he had only outlanded Dibombe through four, 20-18. Dibombe tried
firing back at Melikuziev in the last 20 seconds of the fourth, but Melikuziev
came striking back with the heavier hands. With 2:16 left in the fifth,
Melikuziev knocked down Dibombe with a left, even though it seemed Dibombe
tripped over his own feet. Melikuziev had suffered a major cut on his left eye.
In the sixth, both fighters went winging shots at each other. Through six,
Melikuziev outlanded Dibombe, 62-49. Melikuziev had a strong, overwhelming
seventh, where he was all over Dibombe. He landed a nice one-two and had Dibombe
backing up. As the fighters were about to begin the eighth, referee Ricky
Gonzalez called for the ringside doctor to take a look at Melikuziev’s cut,
which was also caused by an accidental headbutt. The ringside doctor opted to
stop it and go to the scorecards. Arnold Barboza Jr. lands a right into Sean
McComb (Photo by Cris Esqueda-Golden Boy) Arnold Barboza Jr. just gets by Sean
McComb  Team Arnold Barboza Jr.’s confidence was so high that they wore 30-0 on
the back of their shirts in the corner before The Ring’s No. 8 140-pound
contender faced lanky Irish southpaw Sean McComb. Barboza Jr. wants to serve
notice to the 140-pound division that he is belt hunting this year. This was not
the way to do it. Barboza Jr. (30-0, 11 KOs) won a 10-round split-decision over
McComb (18-2, 5 KOs), winning 97-93 and 96-94 on two scorecards, overruling the
one McComb 98-92 card. McComb, who entered the fight on a seven-fight winning
streak, started well. He kept Barboza Jr. away with a jab. He did landed some
decent shots, though nothing extremely effective, tapping Barboza Jr. to the
body a few times. In the second, Barboza Jr. began finding a good distance. He
tagged McComb a few times up top, connecting rights over McComb’s left. In the
last 20 seconds of the fourth, Barboza Jr. had McComb pinned against the ropes,
though could not do much. Through five, Barboza Jr. was not as dominant over
McComb as many thought he would be. If his intention was to take aim at the
world’s best 140-pounders, this was not a good advertisement for that. As the
rounds began to pile it up, McComb was rising as a major threat to upset the
140. In the last round, McComb once again kept Barboza Jr. away, while
connecting each time the previously undefeated junior welterweight neared.
McComb did not allow Barboza Jr. to find a rhythm, prevented Barboza Jr. from
setting up. A spattering of boos came from the crowd as McComb jabbed his way to
frustrate Barboza Jr. Joseph Santoliquito is an award-winning sportswriter who
has been working for Ring Magazine/RingTV.com since October 1997 and is the
president of the Boxing Writers Association of America. Follow @JSantoliquito
READ THE MARCH ISSUE OF THE RING FOR FREE VIA THE NEW APP NOW. SUBSCRIBE NOW TO
ACCESS MORE THAN 10 YEARS OF BACK ISSUES.  Thanks for signing up! Check your
inbox or spam folder to confirm your subscription.