It was May 13, 2011. Seniesa Estrada made her pro debut before a few dozen
boxing fans at the Chumash Casino Resort in Santa Ynez, California. The dismal
backdrop would become the norm through the early years of her career spent in
gaming casinos, concert halls and theaters. Nearly thirteen years later, Estrada
(25-0, 9 knockouts) overcame multiple obstacles to become The Ring 105-pound
champion. She is now one win from the undisputed championship. Estrada will have
to get past Yokasta Valle to achieve that goal this Friday night at the Desert
Diamond Arena in Glendale, Arizona. Their scheduled ten-round grudge match
between unified titlists has commanded more attention than the Oscar Valdez-Liam
Wilson ESPN+ main event. It speaks volumes to how far women’s boxing has come,
and specifically Estrada’s journey to this point. Her pound-for-pound
run—currently No. 5—came under seven different promoters, and far too many
nights spent before sparse crowds for paltry purses. The same could be said for
Costa Rica’s Valle (30-2, 9 KOs), No. 1 at 105 and No. 9 pound-for-pound, and
many other prominent female boxers who accepted any opportunity just to stay
active or be lucky enough to sign a deal with a major promoter. David Avila, a
longtime writer based in Southern California who has long covered and is an
expert in women’s boxing, knew Estrada would become successful in the pro game.
Both Avila and Estrada grew up in East Los Angeles. “I’ve known Seniesa since
she was a teenager,” Avila told The Ring Tuesday. “She fought in the Golden
Gloves (Tournament) and I read about her in the Los Angeles. She has the same
trainer (Dean Santos) that worked with (former world titleholder) Sergio Mora.
They train at the same gym. They have different styles, but they’re both
athletic. “When I saw her spar and fight, I knew she would give all her
opponents a lot of trouble. I knew she had the stuff to be a world champion and
a superstar. She had that quality in her. Seniesa wanted to be the best fighter
ever. That’s how she spoke as a teenager.” The 31-year-old Estrada soundly
defeated Anabel Ortiz to win the WBA 105-pound title in March 2021. It was her
first major title win and she still holds the belt. Estrada added world title
belt at 108 pounds with a ten-round points Tenkai Tsunami less than four months
later. Estrada won both belts under the Golden Boy Promotions banner. Her
contract with Golden Boy ran out at the end of 2021, which was followed by a
bitter, months-long dispute. They eventually severed ties, though Estrada
ultimately fell upward. Two fights into a lucrative promotional deal with Top
Rank, Estrada shut out unbeaten Tina Rupprecht last March 25 in Fresno,
California. The win saw Estrada earn The Ring 105-pound championship and the WBC
title. She will risk both as well as thw WBA title versus Valle, who puts her
IBF and WBO 105-pound belts on the line. The winner of their bout will crown the
sport’s first-ever undisputed strawweight champion, regardless of gender. It
will come in a show in front of a rabid crowd at Desert Diamond Arena, which has
become a boxing hotspot in recent years. The Estrada-Valle fight is one of many
examples of women’s boxing’s evolution from a niche sport to its current golden
era. Several current and former world titleholders have raised their profile
through prominent placement on significant platforms. With it has come the
compensation to finally catch up to the skill set for fighters such as Claressa
Shields, Katie Taylor, Amanda Serrano, Cecilia Braekhus, Chantelle Cameron,
Natasha Jones, Alycia Baumgardner, and Delfine Persoon, among others. Estrada
and Valle are part of that elite class. They’ve done so at a weight that even
the men’s side has struggled to make relevant, never mind lucrative. Avila says
he is not surprised women’s boxing is in the state it is in now. “I always
thought women would crack that barrier to what it is today,” said Avila, who
runs the Sweet Science website. “Few people paid attention to what I saw. To
many, women’s boxing didn’t make any sense. I saw the potential with the sport
back in the 1990’s. There were female fights on cards and those were the best
fights. Fans would throw money in the ring. I saw the competitiveness and action
in the sport. I couldn’t understand why some promoters didn’t push the sport
hard enough. “I was surprised women’s boxing took this long to cross over into
more the mainstream. Then when women were allowed to fight in the Olympics in
2012, things began to change. You had Claressa Shields and Katie Taylor fight
and win (medals). Then, when Ronda Rousey had success in the UFC, that proved
women could sell in combat sports. You saw the emergence of other fighters, like
Amanda Serrano. They smashed the door wide open for other female fighters to
follow.” Not all female fighters were successful. There is the case of Elizabeth
Quevedo. Avila pointed out Quevedo was a shoo-in to represent the United States
at the 2008 Olympic Games, had women’s boxing been allowed. Quevedo, a four-time
amateur champion, settled for one pro fight, a knockout win over Danielle
Christiansen in May 2007. The win was Quevedo’s only fight as a pro. Avila
believes the sky is the limit for Estrada. The same can be said for Valle (30-2,
9 KOs), who is very popular in Costa Rica, where she moved to after growing up
in Nicaragua. The sport is in good hands, according to Avila. The likes of
Shields, Serrano, Taylor, Cameron, Mayer and especially Estradad will make the
sport better. “Seniesa is determined to be the best. She’s smart as to who to
fight. She’s aware of everything boxing-related around her. She understands and
knows about marketing yourself to help sell tickets. Plus, she’s a skilled
fighter.” Francisco A. Salazar has written for The Ring since October 2013 and
has covered boxing in Southern California and abroad since 2000. Francisco also
covers boxing for the Ventura County (California) Star newspaper. He can be
reached at [email protected]. Follow @FSalazarBoxing READ THE MARCH ISSUE OF THE
RING FOR FREE VIA THE NEW APP NOW. SUBSCRIBE NOW TO ACCESS MORE THAN 10 YEARS OF
BACK ISSUES.   READ THE MARCH ISSUE OF THE RING FOR FREE VIA THE NEW APP NOW.
SUBSCRIBE NOW TO ACCESS MORE THAN 10 YEARS OF BACK ISSUES.  Thanks for signing
up! Check your inbox or spam folder to confirm your subscription.