Gilberto Ramirez is No. 1 in Boxrec’s cruiserweight rankings despite having only
fought once in the division, his 10-round unanimous decision over Joe Smith Jr.
last October.  One has to imagine Ramirez’s lofty Boxrec status is due to his
impressive record (45-1, 30 KOs) – which makes him by far the winningest and
most experienced of the website’s ranked cruisers – even though most of his
fights took place at super middleweight, where the 32-year-old Mazatlan native
became the first Mexican to hold a major world title. After a four-year light
heavyweight campaign that culminated in a failed bid for Dmitry Bivol’s WBA
title in November 2022, Ramirez has now set his sights on being the first
Mexican to win a major cruiserweight title. The 6-foot-3 southpaw gets his shot
against WBA beltholder Arsen Goulamirian on Saturday at YouTube Theater in
Inglewood, California. (Goulamirian-Ramirez and four other bouts will stream
live on DAZN, beginning at 5 p.m. PT/8 p.m. ET) Goulamirian also sports an
impressive record (27-0, 18 KOs) but he isn’t in Boxrec’s rankings due to
inactivity (he last fought November 2022). He’s not mad about that or the fact
that Ramirez enjoys a much higher profile in the U.S. The France-based Armenian
has spent enough time in California (where he’s trained with respected coach
Abel Sanchez for years) to know that American boxing fans don’t pay much
attention to the cruiserweight division.   So, the brawny 36-year-old is just
happy to be headlining a Golden Boy Promotions show against a notable Mexican
challenger in his adopted home state.  Arsen Goulamirian-Zurdo Ramirez meet the
L.A. boxing media at their first presser. Photo by Cris Esqueda-Golden Boy
Promotions “My dream was always to fight in America,” Goulamirian, The Ring’s
No. 6-rated cruiserweight, said during Thursday’s final press conference at
YouTube Theater. “I met Abel in 2016, he told me ‘Give me one year, and you’ll
be a world champion.’ We did it and since then my main goal has been to defend
my title in America. I must prove to American fans that I’m the champ.” Ramirez,
The Ring’s No. 10-rated cruiserweight, gleefully stated that his dream is to
once again make Mexican boxing history when it was his turn at the podium.  “I’m
excited,” said Zurdo. “We’re ready.” Is he? Ramirez’s one fight at cruiserweight
came against a former light heavyweight titleholder, one who had lost that belt
via brutal stoppage to Artur Beterbiev in June 2022. Smith was inactive between
the loss to Beterbiev and the Ramirez bout, which took place at a 192-pound
catchweight rather than the 200-pound division limit. However, former
heavyweight contender Malik Scott, who assists Ramirez’s trainer Julian Chua,
liked what he saw in the Smith bout. Ramirez employed a disciplined and mobile
boxing style vs. the hard-punching New Yorker, and Scott believes those same
tactics will work against Goulamirian.  Gilberto Ramirez takes it to Joe Smith
Jr. during their 10-round cruiserweight fight. Photo by Cris Esqueda / Golden
Boy Promotions “Abel reminded me that I sparred with Goulamirian and Murat
Gassiev a few years ago at his training camp in Big Bear, California,” said
Scott, who co-trains Ramirez at Brickhouse Boxing Club in North Hollywood. “He’s
a good, strong, come-forward fighter. He’s hungry. “He might be one-dimensional
but he’s fine with that. They don’t try to make too many adjustments. Abel is a
good-enough teacher that he knows somebody’s strength and makes sure that they
stick to it.  “Styles make fights, and I believe someone with his style is
picture-perfect for Zurdo Ramirez. Coach Julian has been doing an incredible job
with Zurdo, making sure he uses his intelligence, but at the same time making
sure that in moments, he’ll have to make his stand. “I personally believe this
is going to be Zurdo’s career-best performance. They say the Joe Smith fight was
[his best]. I believe Smith is better in some ways than Arsen. If they fought,
I’d pick Smith to win. He’s busier than Arsen, he’s got more speed, he’s a
little bit quicker at closing the distance. Zurdo dealt with Smith’s quick
pressure pretty good.” Scott says Ramirez has put the work in during an
exemplary camp. “It’s been a very long training camp for Zurdo and he’s been
excellent with his drills,” said Scott. “He’s been calm and cool the whole time.
He’s been boxing three and four guys a day; Julian’s been having him go 10, 12
rounds. I’ve been giving my input as much as possible.  “Zurdo’s a well-rounded
fighter. We didn’t see it as much when he was a super middleweight, but this
fight, as his last fight did, will force him to use his gifts, use his angles,
use his pizzazz and his southpaw stance to evade punches and make incredible
counters when he can and slow his opponent down by going to the body. That’s
what he did to Joe Smith. Going into the Smith fight I told him some guys can
take it to the chin, so go to his body. You can hurt tough guys to the body, and
Zurdo is an incredible ‘reader,’ he’s very creative from a southpaw stance, this
is going to be his best performance. And I say that not because Arsen is bad,
it’s just because of the math of boxing, styles make fights. To me, no straight
come-forward fighter can beat Zurdo. You gotta have an A, B, C, and D plan to
beat a fighter like him.” Ramirez’s body attack helped him win a wide unanimous
decision against Smith. (Photo by Cris Esqueda/Golden Boy Promotions) Abel
Sanchez respectfully disagrees, having full confidence in his training program
and his fighter’s abilities.  “The first key [to victory] is that it’s a
12-round fight,” said Sanchez. “That’s the most important fact for me, because
if Zurdo can honestly take the methodical beatdown for 12 rounds, [I’ll give] a
lot of respect to him. I don’t think he’ll be able to. “I’m very proud that he’s
the first Mexican 168-pound world champion, because I’m a Mexican, but this time
he’s fighting somebody that has my teachings, my style, my ‘Mexican style’ that
I like to teach my guys who are aggressive, so Arsen is going to be right in
front of him and if he can take it for 12 rounds, more power to him. “I don’t
think he beats us, but then again he is an ex-world champion, so he’s a
formidable foe.” Scott spoke of styles, noting that a versatile boxer will beat
a one-dimensional come-forward fighter. Sanchez seems to be saying it all
depends on how strong that one dimension is, alluding to that old axiom
‘pressure busts pipes.’  “Arsen’s style, my style, is pressure,” Sanchez said.
“Pressure. We’re right in front of you. Arsen’s strength – I think all my guys’
strength – is their presence. Their presence is their strength. If Zurdo can
deal with that presence, he’s going to have to throw punches, and of course it’s
going to be a good fight. But in the middle of those punches, he’s going to have
to deal with what’s coming back at him and I think eventually, as the fight goes
on, it’s going to be too much for him.” Regardless of which trainer turns out to
be correct, it should be an interesting and entertaining clash of styles/ring
mentalities.  Arsen Goulamirian, known as “Feroz” is used to breaking down his
competition in ferocious fashion. In the co-featured bout of the Golden Boy/DAZN
broadcast, Alexis Rocha (23-2, 15 KOs), The Ring’s No. 8-rated welterweight,
takes on Fredrick Lawson (30-4, 22 KOs) in a scheduled 10-round bout.  It will
be Rocha’s first bout since suffering a brutal sixth-round KO to Giovani
Santillan last October. Lawson, a 34-year-old veteran from Ghana, was last seen
being stopped in the opening round against Vergil Ortiz in January. The KO was
controversial on two fronts: 1. It was egregiously premature, and 2. Referee
Tony Weeks claimed (in a since-deleted Facebook post) that two “brain scans” had
revealed that Lawson had an “aneurysm” going into the DAZN-streamed main event
from Las Vegas.  Needless to say, the Nevada State Athletic Commission released
a statement that Lawson had been medically cleared to fight by a commission
doctor and Weeks hasn’t been heard from. However, given the California State
Athletic Commission’s commitment to the health and safety of combat sport
athletes, one would assume that Lawson has been closely examined going into
Saturday’s show.  Also on the DAZN portion of the show, Ricardo Sandoval (23-2,
16 KOs), The Ring’s No. 8-rated flyweight, takes on well-traveled Nicaraguan
veteran Carlos Buitrago (38-12-1, 22 KOs) in a scheduled 10-round bout. 
Santiago Dominguez (26-0, 20 KOs), a welterweight fringe contender from Sonora,
Mexico, and former U.S. amateur star Joel Iriarte (1-0, 1 KO) kick-off the
broadcast. Iriarte, a 20-year-old welterweight from Bakersfield, California,
turned pro on the William Zepeda-Maxi Hughes undercard on March 16.  “Boxing is
a lifestyle,” said Iriarte, a multi-time national amateur champ and Pan-American
Games gold medalist. “We stay in the gym, so we don’t need six weeks to prepare
for a fight, we don’t even need two weeks. I want to be as active as possible.”
Big things are expected of this young man, so it’s nice to know he’s an
#ActivityMatters advocate (shout out to Steve Kim). Canadian light heavyweight
prospect Kareem Hackett (12-0, 6 KOs) and Santa Ana-based lightweight Jonathan
Canas (3-0, 2 KOs), a stablemate of Rocha, are on the non-DAZN undercard.  ***
During the Goulamirian-Ramirez press conference, Golden Boy Promotions announced
a multi-year, multi-event partnership deal with Hollywood Park venues, which
includes YouTube Theater, Hollywood Park casino, and SoFi Stadium. The agreement
means more Golden Boy fight cards at the 6,000-seat YouTube Theater each year,
and the potential opportunity to one day bring a superfight to the 70,000-seat
SoFi Stadium.  Adolfo Romero and Oscar De La Hoya. Photo by Cris Esqueda-Golden
Boy Promotions “We are proud to have a championship partner in our corner with
Golden Boy Promotions,” said Adolfo Romero, Vice President, Programming and
Booking for YouTube Theater at Hollywood Park. “YouTube Theater is the first Los
Angeles venue to ink a multi-year agreement with a boxing promoter showcasing
our commitment to this sport, and leveraging our year-round events at SoFi
Stadium and across Hollywood Park to continue our diverse programming strategy.”
Some of the mega-events coming to SoFi Stadium over the next few years include
the Copa America international soccer competition (summer 2024), the World Cup
(summer 2026), the Super Bowl (2027) and the opening ceremonies of the 2028
Olympic Games.  SUBSCRIBE NOW (CLICK HERE - JUST $1.99 PER MONTH) TO READ THE
LATEST ISSUE  Thanks for signing up! Check your inbox or spam folder to confirm
your subscription.